---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/how-to-come-out-froms-sins-forever/unconsious-sins/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","created":"2025-05-09T22:26:33.878+05:00","updated":"2025-05-07T23:55:15.355+05:00"}
---

Do you know that invisible mobile phones have been invented? They won't be visible but will be with us. When you hear this information, your conscious mind wakes up, and you consciously read it. However, during this time, you've been breathing for many hours unconsciously. 80% of our brain functions unconsciously, while 20% operates consciously.When we sleep, things move from the conscious mind to the subconscious. The point here is that we commit many sins subconsciously, without realizing or acknowledging that they exist, but they do. These actions are in our default settings, like looking at girls in university or listening to songs at branded cafes. We can tell them to stop songs, otherwise we don't sit here, but we don't, because our conscious mind doesn’t send the signal to act, as these behaviors are embedded in our [subconscious.We](http://subconscious.we/) perform many daily tasks, and 70% of the sins we commit are done unconsciously. The step we must take is to think before doing any task, asking ourselves what Allah’s command is regarding it. Initially, this will take 5-6 weeks, and you might feel strange doing this before any task. But after that, when this conscious habit becomes part of your subconscious, your subconscious actions will transform from sins to virtuess.