---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/basics/we-all-have-knowledge-not-belief/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","created":"2025-05-09T22:26:33.854+05:00","updated":"2025-05-07T23:55:18.143+05:00"}
---

We all have knowledge, not belief For example, if I ask you, 'Do you believe that you can die at any time and that you'll be accountable for your deeds?' You will say, 'Yes, I believe.' But there's a huge difference between knowledge and belief.

First, let's ask, what is knowledge? Knowledge is simply being aware of something. Then, what is Amal (action)? Amal is acting upon the knowledge you have. Mere knowledge will never lead you to action; it’s belief that compels you towards Amal.

Let’s understand this concept through a scenario. Suppose you’re my close friend, and I say, 'Let’s go to Kashmir for a tour. I’ll come with a car to pick you up this Friday, and I’ll cover all the expenses. We’ll even stop at a resort in Islamabad on the way back.' Would you accept the offer? Of course, yes. Who would reject it? You’d be excited and ready to go.Now, on Friday morning, let’s say you suddenly feel severe pain in your head. You take 2-3 Panadols, but the pain doesn’t stop. You tell your brother, and he says it's normal, but you feel it's getting worse. He takes you to a nearby hospital, where doctors do all the tests—MRI and everything. Then they tell you, 'Brother, either you came here early, or you have a severe brain issue that even doctors in France or America can’t treat. You have only 10-13 hours left. You can choose to stay here on painkillers or go home.’Then, 10 minutes later, I call you and say, 'Oh brother, everything is ready. Where are you? We have a trip.' What will you do? Will you go on the trip or not? Honestly, no. Because now you believe you could leave this world at any time. Before, you were under the illusion of belief that you knew about death. Now, you truly [believe.In](http://believe.in/) those 10-13 hours, all your actions would change. Before, you only had the knowledge that you would die someday. Now, you have the belief. The whole game is about belief. When our belief becomes strong, our actions improve automatically. Take, for example, a town of 1000 people, 900 of whom are Muslims, and 400 are men. All of them know that Namaz (prayer) is obligatory, but why don’t they all come to the mosque when Allah calls them five times a day? Because they know, but they don’t believe.Hence, it's proven: belief is directly proportional to action. So, we must focus on strengthening our Iman (belief), not just gaining more knowledge. Knowledge is good, but it’s meaningless without the soul of belief.

JazakAllah.

  
